Senior – Vaibhav Yadav
Summary
Vaibhav is a Senior in EY’s Financial Services Risk Management practice. He has 4+ years of experience in the Banking and Financial Services industry. Proficient in CCAR/DFAST PD/LGD/EAD model development, and stress testing as per CCAR/CECL norms for Commercial portfolio.

Qualifications and training

MA Economics, Delhi University, 2021

BA(H) Economics, Delhi University, 2019

Key relevant experience

Contributed to Macro Modelling and model monitoring for Interest Rates and Macro variables.

Quarterly reviewed and adjusted projection paths for these variables under different scenarios including CCAR BHC & FRB, 5 Firm internal Macro Scenarios, and Climate FRBCSA pilot project scenarios.

Worked on Climate Fed Pilot Project to create long term (40Q) forecasts for variables, along with Modelling granular sector level GVAs to better capture Climate scenario impact.

Owned Geopolitical Asia Escalation scenario with in Firm Macro Scenarios and delivered quarterly forecasts.

Worked on dataset production for ~1300 user claimed variables.

Engaged in DQ checks, usual data fixes, sourcing data from multiple data providers, running scenarios and creating projection sets.

Worked on python script to make the DQ checks process more focused by significantly detecting 98% (350k Standalone Issues and 700k comparison issues) as non-material and recurring and introduced priority segmentation of issues significantly reducing the effort.

Engaged in quantitative model validation of PPNR models in accordance with CCAR and SR 11-7 Guidelines.

Analysed model methodology and formulation; risk associated with model assumptions and limitations.

Appraising the input data; conducting statistical testing of variables and model residuals using SAS.

Evaluating model outputs; overrides and overlays.

Assisted in the validation and back-testing of CECL models for consumer lending portfolios, ensuring compliance with accounting standards and regulatory expectations.

Led monthly macro monitoring, prepared deck and Flash Reports (presented to downstream users) regarding recent developments in economic environment.

Technical Skills

Experience of regulatory regimes viz. Basel II/III, CCAR, IFRS9

Model development and validation of credit risk models

Stress Testing, Capital Policy & Capital Planning, CCAR Risk Analytics

Advanced Excel, SAS, Python

Model Risk Management

Model Audit

